# Executor

## Features

- Following the MISO (multiple-input-single-output) dataflow for executors.
- Following the offset-by-one feature for the Kanban-based pipeline.
- Exploiting replicas to resist executor faults and data loss.

## Limitations

- Assuming an always-on manager, which runs on a trusted standalone machine.
- Using Kanban variables to simulate the blockchain interactions.
- Lacking standard remote attestation and key management.
- Lacking an incentive model.

## Crawler

- A kind of executor that downloads a batch of items and parses them into documents.

For Steemit, it gets a block from the Steem full node at one time, parses the block and filters out transactions that are expected to contain some posts. Finally, it uploads posts and witnesses to Kanban.

### Basic Workflow

```
Loop:
 glance at the epoch
 download blocks from Steemit
 parse blocks into posts
 upload posts to Kanban
 upload witness to Kanban
```

### Notes

We no longer support OpenBazaar because OB has been depleted since 2021 Jan: https://twitter.com/openbazaar/status/1346104369566121986

## Indexer

- A kind of executor that transforms documents into a stream of indexes and digests.

### Basic Workflow

```
loop:
     glance at the epoch
     download documents from Kanban
     tokenize documents into indexes and digests
     merge index and digest into one binary
     upload binary to Kanban
     upload witness to Kanban
```

## Reducer

- A kind of executor that merges the new index and the global index.

## Querier

- A kind of executor that serves search requests in a privacy-preserving way.

### Security Analysis

Pros:

- ORAM to (partially) hide access patterns inside secure memory.
- Constant number and length of results to hide network patterns.

Cons:

- For multi-keyword searches, multiple rounds of ORAM fetches do leak info.
- Metadata manipulation using C++ STL leaks info.

## Manager

- A kind of executor that summarizes a root digest for witness keys in the current epoch and then increments the epoch.


# Term Explanation

## MISO

MISO is short for multiple input single output. Unlike blockchain's hash chain, desearch arranges the search dataflow into a hash tree.

MISO produces exactly one output, making it intuitive to store the MISO-style witness using [out] as the key and the [witness] as the value in a key-value store, named Kanban.

## Offset-by-one

Desearch has a heartbeat called an epoch.

When an epoch closes, a new root hash will summarize all the contents in this epoch.

An executor in the pipeline only uses data from the last epoch.

## Kanban

Kanban stores both data and metadata.

For data, the witness summarizes their correctness in a specific epoch.
For metadata such as witnesses, the root digest, on the other hand, summarizes their correctness.
The root digest is generated by hashing a sorted list of the keys associated with the witnesses.


# FAQ

### Will Kanban be a source of centralization?

Desearch requires a secure yet efficient storage layer that cannot be tampered with.
Its current form relies on cloud storage as Kanban, but it could use IPFS alternatively.
As desearch provides search services for DApps whose data sources are authenticated, if the cloud storage is manipulated, executors can switch to alternate service providers causing the original cloud service to lose profits.
The root digests assist in detecting such tampering. An incentive model may penalize dishonesty through the use of liquidated damages.

### Will Manager be a source of centralization?

Desearch is a permissionless network that permits any executor to become a manager. The network's internal deterministic execution assures that the new managers will perform the same role. Desearch utilizes "first writer wins," which discards and does not reward replicated manager work.

### Will stateful executors harm freshness?

Queriers and auditors are (somewhat) stateful executors that cache prior snapshots.
Clients should access the ledger to obtain the global timestamp named *epoch* and then be able to invalidate the cache.
